docs/fa/class-dfa.md, before:

# class DFA(FA)

[FA Class](class-fa.md)  
[Table of Contents](../README.md)

The `DFA` class is a subclass of `FA` and represents a deterministic finite
automaton. It can be found under `automata/fa/dfa.py`.

Every DFA has the following (required) properties:

1. `states`: a `set` of the DFA's valid states, each of which must be
represented as a string

2. `input_symbols`: a `set` of the DFA's valid input symbols, each of which must
also be represented as a string

3. `transitions`: a `dict` consisting of the transitions for each state. Each
key is a state name and each value is a `dict` which maps a symbol (the key) to
a state (the value).

4. `initial_state`: the name of the initial state for this DFA

5. `final_states`: a `set` of final states for this DFA

6. `allow_partial`: by default, each DFA state must have a transition to
every input symbol; if `allow_partial` is `True`, you can disable this
characteristic (such that any DFA state can have fewer transitions than input
symbols). Note that a DFA must always have every state represented in the
transition dictionary, even if there are no transitions on input symbols
leaving a state (dictionary is left empty in that case).

```python
from automata.fa.dfa import DFA
# DFA which matches all binary strings ending in an odd number of '1's
dfa = DFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    input_symbols={'0', '1'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q1'},
        'q1': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q2'},
        'q2': {'0': 'q2', '1': 'q1'}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
```

## DFA.read_input(self, input_str)

Returns the final state the DFA stopped on, if the input is accepted.

```python
dfa.read_input('01')  # returns 'q1'
```

```python
dfa.read_input('011')  # raises RejectionException
```

## DFA.read_input_stepwise(self, input_str)

Yields each state reached as the DFA reads characters from the input string, if
the input is accepted.

```python
dfa.read_input_stepwise('0111')
# yields:
# 'q0'
# 'q0'
# 'q1'
# 'q2'
# 'q1'
```

## DFA.accepts_input(self, input_str)

```python
if dfa.accepts_input(my_input_str):
    print('accepted')
else:
    print('rejected')
```

## DFA.copy(self)

```python
dfa.copy()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```

## DFA.to_partial(self)

Creates an equivalent partial DFA with all unnecessary transitions removed. If the DFA is
already partial, just returns a copy.

```python
dfa.to_partial()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```
## DFA.to_complete(self, trap_state = None)

Creates an equivalent complete DFA with `trap_state` used as the name for an added trap
state. If `trap_state` is not passed in, defaults to the largest negative integer
which is not already a state name. If the DFA is already complete, just returns a copy.

```python
dfa.to_partial()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```

## DFA.minify(self, retain_names=False)

Creates a minimal DFA which accepts the same inputs as the old one.
Unreachable states are removed and equivalent states are merged.
States are renamed by default. If the input DFA is partial, the
result is also partial.

```python
minimal_dfa = dfa.minify()
minimal_dfa_with_old_names = dfa.minify(retain_names=True)
```

## DFA Equivalence

Use the `==` operator to check if two DFAs accept the same language. Please
note that both DFAs must have the same input symbols.

```python
dfa1 == dfa2
```

## DFA.complement(self, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Creates a DFA which accepts an input if and only if the old one does not.
Minifies by default. Unreachable states are always removed. Partial DFAs
are converted into complete ones.

```python
minimal_complement_dfa = ~dfa
complement_dfa = dfa.complement(minify=False)
```

## DFA.union(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the union of A and B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_union_dfa = dfa | other_dfa
union_dfa = dfa.union(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.intersection(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the intersection of A and B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_intersection_dfa = dfa & other_dfa
intersection_dfa = dfa.intersection(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.difference(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the set difference of A and B, often
denoted A \ B or A - B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_difference_dfa = dfa - other_dfa
difference_dfa = dfa.difference(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.symmetric_difference(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the symmetric difference of A and B.
Minifies by default. Unreachable states are always removed.
If either input DFA is partial, the result is partial.

```python
minimal_symmetric_difference_dfa = dfa ^ other_dfa
symmetric_difference_dfa = dfa.symmetric_difference(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.issubset(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of the A is a subset of B, False otherwise.

```python
dfa <= other_dfa
dfa.issubset(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.issuperset(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of the A is a superset of B, False otherwise.

```python
dfa >= other_dfa
dfa.issuperset(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.isdisjoint(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of A and B are disjoint, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isdisjoint(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.isempty(self)

Returns `True` if the DFA does not accept any inputs, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isempty()
```

## DFA.isfinite(self)

Returns `True` if the DFA accepts a finite language, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isfinite()
```

## DFA.random_word(self, k, seed=None)

Returns a uniformly random word of length `k`

```python
dfa.random_word(1000, seed=42)
```

## DFA.predecessor(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Returns the first string accepted by the DFA that comes before
the input string in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
prev_word = dfa.predecessor('0110')
same_word = dfa.predecessor(prev_word, strict=False)
```

## DFA.predecessors(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Generates all strings that come before the input string
in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
# Generates all strings in a language in lexographical order
for word in dfa.predecessors(None):
    print(word)
```

## DFA.successor(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Returns the first string accepted by the DFA that comes after
the input string in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
next_word = dfa.successor('0110')
same_word = dfa.predecessor(next_word, strict=False)
```

## DFA.successors(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None, reverse=False)

Generates all strings that come after the input string
in lexicographical order.
Passing in `None` will generate all words.
If `strict` is set to `False` and `input_str` is accepted by the DFA then
it will be included in the output.
The value of `key` can be set to define a custom lexicographical ordering.
If `reverse` is set to `True` then predecessors will be generated instead.
Predecessors can only be generated for finite languagesnly for finite languages, infinite languages raise a `ValueError`.

```python
# Generates all strings in a language in lexographical order
for word in dfa.successors(None):
    print(word)
```

## DFA.minimum_word_length(self)

Returns the length of the shortest word in the language represented by the DFA.

```python
dfa.minimum_word_length()
```

## DFA.maximum_word_length(self)

Returns the length of the longest word in the language represented by the DFA.
In the case of infinite languages, `None` is returned. In the case of empty
languages, `EmptyLanguageException` is raised.

```python
dfa.maximum_word_length()
```

## DFA.count_words_of_length(self, k)

Counts words of length `k` accepted by the DFA.

```python
dfa.count_words_of_length(3)
```

## DFA.words_of_length(self, k)

Generates words of length `k` accepted by the DFA.

```python
for word in dfa.words_of_length(3):
    print(word)
```

You can also iterate through all words accepted by the DFA.
Be aware that the generator may be infinite.

```python
for word in dfa:
    if len(word) > 10:
        break
    print(word)
```

## DFA.clear_cache(self)

Resets the word and count caches. Can be called if too much memory is being used.

```python
dfa.clear_cache()
```

## DFA.cardinality(self)

Returns the cardinality of the language represented by the DFA. Raises an
`InfiniteLanguageException` if the language is infinite.

```python
dfa.cardinality()
len(dfa)
```

## DFA.from_prefix(cls, input_symbols, prefix, contains=True, as_partial=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings with the
given prefix.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.
If `as_partial` is set to `True` then will attempt to construct this DFA as a
partial DFA.

```python
contains_prefix_nano = DFA.from_prefix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_prefix_nano = DFA.from_prefix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_suffix(cls, input_symbols, suffix, contains=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings with the
given prefix.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.

```python
contains_suffix_nano = DFA.from_suffix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_suffix_nano = DFA.from_suffix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_substring(cls, input_symbols, substring, contains=True, must_be_suffix=False)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings containing the
given substring.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.
If `must_be_suffix` is set to `True`, then the substring must be a suffix instead.

```python
contains_substring_nano = DFA.contains_substring({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_substring_nano = DFA.contains_substring({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_subsequence(cls, input_symbols, subsequence, contains=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings containing the
given subsequence.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.

```python
contains_substring_dcba = DFA.contains_subsequence({'a', 'b', 'c', 'd'}, 'dcba')
avoids_substring_dcba = DFA.contains_subsequence({'a', 'b', 'c', 'd'}, 'dcba', contains=False)
```

## DFA.of_length(cls, input_symbols, min_length=0, max_length=None, symbols_to_count=None)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose length is between `min_length`
and `max_length`, inclusive. To allow infinitely long words, the value `None` can be
passed in for `max_length`. If `symbols_to_count` is `None` (default behavior), then counts
all symbols. Otherwise, only counts symbols present in the set `symbols_to_count` and
ignores other symbols.

```python
dfa = DFA.of_length({'0', '1'}, min_length=4)
dfa = DFA.of_length({'0', '1'}, min_length=4, max_length=8)
```

## DFA.count_mod(cls, input_symbol, k, remainders=None, symbols_to_count=None)

Directly computes a DFA that counts given symbols and accepts all strings where
the remainder of division by `k` is in the set of `remainders` given.
The default value of `remainders` is `{0}` and all symbols are counted by default.
If `symbols_to_count` is `None` (default behavior), then counts all symbols.
Otherwise, only counts symbols present in the set `symbols_to_count` and
ignores other symbols.

```python
even_length_strings = DFA.count_mod({'0', '1'}, 2)
odd_number_of_ones = DFA.count_mod({'0', '1'}, 2, remainders={1}, symbols_to_count={'1'})
```

## DFA.universal_language(cls, input_symbols)

Returns a new DFA which accepts all strings formed from the given input symbols.

```python
DFA.universal_language(input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

## DFA.empty_language(cls, input_symbols)

Returns a new DFA which rejects all strings formed from the given input symbols.

```python
DFA.empty_language(input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

## DFA.nth_from_start(cls, input_symbols, symbol, n)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose `n`-th character from the end is `symbol`, where `n` is a positive integer.

```python
dfa = DFA.nth_from_start({'0', '1'}, '1', 4)
```

## DFA.nth_from_end(cls, input_symbols, symbol, n)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose `n`-th character from the end is `symbol`, where `n` is a positive integer.

```python
dfa = DFA.nth_from_end({'0', '1'}, '1', 4)
```

## DFA.from_nfa(cls, nfa, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Creates a DFA that is equivalent to the given NFA. States are renamed by
default unless `retain_names` is set to `True`. Minifies by default.
Always attempts to return a partial DFA.

```python
from automata.fa.dfa import DFA
from automata.fa.nfa import NFA
dfa = DFA.from_nfa(nfa)  # returns an equivalent DFA
```

## DFA.from_finite_language(cls, input_symbols, language, as_partial=True)

Constructs the minimal DFA corresponding to the given finite language and input symbols.
If `as_partial` is set to `True` then will attempt to construct this DFA as a
partial DFA.

```python
DFA.from_finite_language(
    language={'aa', 'aaa', 'aaba', 'aabbb', 'abaa', 'ababb', 'abbab',
              'baa', 'babb', 'bbaa', 'bbabb', 'bbbab'},
    input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

## DFA.show_diagram(self, path=None)

```python
dfa.show_diagram(path='./dfa1.png')
```

------

[Next: NFA Class](class-nfa.md)  
[FA Class](class-fa.md)  
[Table of Contents](../README.md)

Commit message:

Jupyter notebook and docs updates

docs/fa/class-dfa.md, after:

# class DFA(FA)

[FA Class](class-fa.md)  
[Table of Contents](../README.md)

The `DFA` class is a subclass of `FA` and represents a deterministic finite
automaton. It can be found under `automata/fa/dfa.py`. Every DFA
can be rendered natively inside of a Jupyter notebook (automatically calling
`show_diagram` without any arguments) if installed with the `visual` optional
dependency.

Every DFA has the following (required) properties:

1. `states`: a `set` of the DFA's valid states, each of which must be
represented as a string

2. `input_symbols`: a `set` of the DFA's valid input symbols, each of which must
also be represented as a string

3. `transitions`: a `dict` consisting of the transitions for each state. Each
key is a state name and each value is a `dict` which maps a symbol (the key) to
a state (the value).

4. `initial_state`: the name of the initial state for this DFA

5. `final_states`: a `set` of final states for this DFA

6. `allow_partial`: by default, each DFA state must have a transition to
every input symbol; if `allow_partial` is `True`, you can disable this
characteristic (such that any DFA state can have fewer transitions than input
symbols). Note that a DFA must always have every state represented in the
transition dictionary, even if there are no transitions on input symbols
leaving a state (dictionary is left empty in that case).

```python
from automata.fa.dfa import DFA
# DFA which matches all binary strings ending in an odd number of '1's
dfa = DFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    input_symbols={'0', '1'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q1'},
        'q1': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q2'},
        'q2': {'0': 'q2', '1': 'q1'}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
```

## DFA.read_input(self, input_str)

Returns the final state the DFA stopped on, if the input is accepted.

```python
dfa.read_input('01')  # returns 'q1'
```

```python
dfa.read_input('011')  # raises RejectionException
```

## DFA.read_input_stepwise(self, input_str)

Yields each state reached as the DFA reads characters from the input string, if
the input is accepted.

```python
dfa.read_input_stepwise('0111')
# yields:
# 'q0'
# 'q0'
# 'q1'
# 'q2'
# 'q1'
```

## DFA.accepts_input(self, input_str)

```python
if dfa.accepts_input(my_input_str):
    print('accepted')
else:
    print('rejected')
```

## DFA.copy(self)

```python
dfa.copy()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```

## DFA.to_partial(self)

Creates an equivalent partial DFA with all unnecessary transitions removed. If the DFA is
already partial, just returns a copy.

```python
dfa.to_partial()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```
## DFA.to_complete(self, trap_state = None)

Creates an equivalent complete DFA with `trap_state` used as the name for an added trap
state. If `trap_state` is not passed in, defaults to the largest negative integer
which is not already a state name. If the DFA is already complete, just returns a copy.

```python
dfa.to_partial()  # returns deep copy of dfa
```

## DFA.minify(self, retain_names=False)

Creates a minimal DFA which accepts the same inputs as the old one.
Unreachable states are removed and equivalent states are merged.
States are renamed by default. If the input DFA is partial, the
result is also partial.

```python
minimal_dfa = dfa.minify()
minimal_dfa_with_old_names = dfa.minify(retain_names=True)
```

## DFA Equivalence

Use the `==` operator to check if two DFAs accept the same language. Please
note that both DFAs must have the same input symbols.

```python
dfa1 == dfa2
```

## DFA.complement(self, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Creates a DFA which accepts an input if and only if the old one does not.
Minifies by default. Unreachable states are always removed. Partial DFAs
are converted into complete ones.

```python
minimal_complement_dfa = ~dfa
complement_dfa = dfa.complement(minify=False)
```

## DFA.union(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the union of A and B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_union_dfa = dfa | other_dfa
union_dfa = dfa.union(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.intersection(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the intersection of A and B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_intersection_dfa = dfa & other_dfa
intersection_dfa = dfa.intersection(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.difference(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the set difference of A and B, often
denoted A \ B or A - B. Minifies by default.
Unreachable states are always removed. If either input DFA is partial,
the result is partial.

```python
minimal_difference_dfa = dfa - other_dfa
difference_dfa = dfa.difference(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.symmetric_difference(self, other, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
creates a DFA which accepts the symmetric difference of A and B.
Minifies by default. Unreachable states are always removed.
If either input DFA is partial, the result is partial.

```python
minimal_symmetric_difference_dfa = dfa ^ other_dfa
symmetric_difference_dfa = dfa.symmetric_difference(other_dfa, minify=False)
```

## DFA.issubset(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of the A is a subset of B, False otherwise.

```python
dfa <= other_dfa
dfa.issubset(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.issuperset(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of the A is a superset of B, False otherwise.

```python
dfa >= other_dfa
dfa.issuperset(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.isdisjoint(self, other_dfa)

Given two DFAs which accept the languages A and B respectively,
returns True of A and B are disjoint, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isdisjoint(other_dfa)
```

## DFA.isempty(self)

Returns `True` if the DFA does not accept any inputs, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isempty()
```

## DFA.isfinite(self)

Returns `True` if the DFA accepts a finite language, False otherwise.

```python
dfa.isfinite()
```

## DFA.random_word(self, k, seed=None)

Returns a uniformly random word of length `k`

```python
dfa.random_word(1000, seed=42)
```

## DFA.predecessor(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Returns the first string accepted by the DFA that comes before
the input string in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
prev_word = dfa.predecessor('0110')
same_word = dfa.predecessor(prev_word, strict=False)
```

## DFA.predecessors(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Generates all strings that come before the input string
in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
# Generates all strings in a language in lexographical order
for word in dfa.predecessors(None):
    print(word)
```

## DFA.successor(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None)

Returns the first string accepted by the DFA that comes after
the input string in lexicographical order.
See `DFA.successors` for more information.

```python
next_word = dfa.successor('0110')
same_word = dfa.predecessor(next_word, strict=False)
```

## DFA.successors(self, input_str, strict=True, key=None, reverse=False)

Generates all strings that come after the input string
in lexicographical order.
Passing in `None` will generate all words.
If `strict` is set to `False` and `input_str` is accepted by the DFA then
it will be included in the output.
The value of `key` can be set to define a custom lexicographical ordering.
If `reverse` is set to `True` then predecessors will be generated instead.
Predecessors can only be generated for finite languagesnly for finite languages, infinite languages raise a `ValueError`.

```python
# Generates all strings in a language in lexographical order
for word in dfa.successors(None):
    print(word)
```

## DFA.minimum_word_length(self)

Returns the length of the shortest word in the language represented by the DFA.

```python
dfa.minimum_word_length()
```

## DFA.maximum_word_length(self)

Returns the length of the longest word in the language represented by the DFA.
In the case of infinite languages, `None` is returned. In the case of empty
languages, `EmptyLanguageException` is raised.

```python
dfa.maximum_word_length()
```

## DFA.count_words_of_length(self, k)

Counts words of length `k` accepted by the DFA.

```python
dfa.count_words_of_length(3)
```

__Note:__ Counts of words are cached. Use the `clear_cache` method if memory is an issue.

## DFA.words_of_length(self, k)

Generates words of length `k` accepted by the DFA.

```python
for word in dfa.words_of_length(3):
    print(word)
```

You can also iterate through all words accepted by the DFA.
Be aware that the generator may be infinite.

```python
for word in dfa:
    if len(word) > 10:
        break
    print(word)
```

__Note:__ Generated words are cached. Use the `clear_cache` method if memory is an issue.

## DFA.clear_cache(self)

Resets the word and count caches. Can be called if too much memory is being used.

```python
dfa.clear_cache()
```

## DFA.cardinality(self)

Returns the cardinality of the language represented by the DFA. Raises an
`InfiniteLanguageException` if the language is infinite.

```python
dfa.cardinality()
len(dfa)
```

## DFA.from_prefix(cls, input_symbols, prefix, contains=True, as_partial=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings with the
given prefix.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.
If `as_partial` is set to `True` then will attempt to construct this DFA as a
partial DFA.

```python
contains_prefix_nano = DFA.from_prefix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_prefix_nano = DFA.from_prefix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_suffix(cls, input_symbols, suffix, contains=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings with the
given prefix.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.

```python
contains_suffix_nano = DFA.from_suffix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_suffix_nano = DFA.from_suffix({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_substring(cls, input_symbols, substring, contains=True, must_be_suffix=False)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings containing the
given substring.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.
If `must_be_suffix` is set to `True`, then the substring must be a suffix instead.

```python
contains_substring_nano = DFA.contains_substring({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano')
avoids_substring_nano = DFA.contains_substring({'a', 'n', 'o', 'b'}, 'nano', contains=False)
```

## DFA.from_subsequence(cls, input_symbols, subsequence, contains=True)

Directly computes the minimal DFA recognizing strings containing the
given subsequence.
If `contains` is set to `False` then the complement is constructed instead.

```python
contains_substring_dcba = DFA.contains_subsequence({'a', 'b', 'c', 'd'}, 'dcba')
avoids_substring_dcba = DFA.contains_subsequence({'a', 'b', 'c', 'd'}, 'dcba', contains=False)
```

## DFA.of_length(cls, input_symbols, min_length=0, max_length=None, symbols_to_count=None)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose length is between `min_length`
and `max_length`, inclusive. To allow infinitely long words, the value `None` can be
passed in for `max_length`. If `symbols_to_count` is `None` (default behavior), then counts
all symbols. Otherwise, only counts symbols present in the set `symbols_to_count` and
ignores other symbols.

```python
dfa = DFA.of_length({'0', '1'}, min_length=4)
dfa = DFA.of_length({'0', '1'}, min_length=4, max_length=8)
```

## DFA.count_mod(cls, input_symbol, k, remainders=None, symbols_to_count=None)

Directly computes a DFA that counts given symbols and accepts all strings where
the remainder of division by `k` is in the set of `remainders` given.
The default value of `remainders` is `{0}` and all symbols are counted by default.
If `symbols_to_count` is `None` (default behavior), then counts all symbols.
Otherwise, only counts symbols present in the set `symbols_to_count` and
ignores other symbols.

```python
even_length_strings = DFA.count_mod({'0', '1'}, 2)
odd_number_of_ones = DFA.count_mod({'0', '1'}, 2, remainders={1}, symbols_to_count={'1'})
```

## DFA.universal_language(cls, input_symbols)

Returns a new DFA which accepts all strings formed from the given input symbols.

```python
DFA.universal_language(input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

## DFA.empty_language(cls, input_symbols)

Returns a new DFA which rejects all strings formed from the given input symbols.

```python
DFA.empty_language(input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

## DFA.nth_from_start(cls, input_symbols, symbol, n)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose `n`-th character from the end is `symbol`, where `n` is a positive integer.

```python
dfa = DFA.nth_from_start({'0', '1'}, '1', 4)
```

## DFA.nth_from_end(cls, input_symbols, symbol, n)

Directly computes the minimal DFA which accepts all words whose `n`-th character from the end is `symbol`, where `n` is a positive integer.

```python
dfa = DFA.nth_from_end({'0', '1'}, '1', 4)
```

## DFA.from_nfa(cls, nfa, retain_names=False, minify=True)

Creates a DFA that is equivalent to the given NFA. States are renamed by
default unless `retain_names` is set to `True`. Minifies by default.
Always attempts to return a partial DFA.

```python
from automata.fa.dfa import DFA
from automata.fa.nfa import NFA
dfa = DFA.from_nfa(nfa)  # returns an equivalent DFA
```

## DFA.from_finite_language(cls, input_symbols, language, as_partial=True)

Constructs the minimal DFA corresponding to the given finite language and input symbols.
If `as_partial` is set to `True` then will attempt to construct this DFA as a
partial DFA.

```python
DFA.from_finite_language(
    language={'aa', 'aaa', 'aaba', 'aabbb', 'abaa', 'ababb', 'abbab',
              'baa', 'babb', 'bbaa', 'bbabb', 'bbbab'},
    input_symbols={'a', 'b'})
```

------

[Next: NFA Class](class-nfa.md)  
[FA Class](class-fa.md)  
[Table of Contents](../README.md)
