README.md, before:

# Automata

*Copyright 2016 Caleb Evans*  
*Released under the MIT license*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/caleb531/automata.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/caleb531/automata)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/caleb531/automata/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/caleb531/automata?branch=master)

Automata is a Python 3 library which implements the structures and algorithms I
am learning in my Automata Theory class. The project is still under development,
so the API is not yet stable, nor is the code complete in terms of
functionality.

Automata requires Python 3.3 or newer.

## API

### class Automaton

The `Automaton` class is an abstract base class from which all finite automata
inherit. As such, it cannot be instantiated on its own; you must use the `DFA`
and `NFA` classes instead (or you may create your own subclass if you're feeling
adventurous). The `Automaton` class can be found under `automata/automaton.py`.

### class DFA

The `DFA` class is a subclass of class `Automaton` which represents a
deterministic finite automaton. The `DFA` class can be found under
`automata/dfa.py`.

#### DFA properties

Every DFA instance has the following properties:

1. `states`: a `set` of the DFA's valid states, each of which must be
represented as a string

2. `symbols`: a `set` of the DFA's valid symbols, each of which must also be
represented as a string

3. `transitions`: a `dict` consisting of the transitions for each state. Each
key is a state name and each value is a `dict` which maps a symbol (the key) to
a state (the value).

4. `initial_state`: the name of the initial state for this DFA

5. `final_states`: a `set` of final states for this DFA

All of these properties must be supplied when the DFA is
instantiated (see the examples below).

#### Validating input

The `validate_input()` method checks whether or not the given string is accepted
by the DFA. If the string is accepted, the method returns the state the
automaton stopped on (which presumably is a valid final state). If the string is
rejected by the DFA, the method will raise the appropriate exception (see
**Exception classes**).

#### Complete example

```python
from automata.dfa import DFA
# DFA which matches all binary strings ending in an odd number of '1's
dfa = DFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    symbols={'0', '1'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q1'},
        'q1': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q2'},
        'q2': {'0': 'q2', '1': 'q1'}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
dfa.validate_input('01') # returns 'q1'
dfa.validate_input('011') # raises FinalStateError
```

### class NFA

The `NFA` class is a subclass of class `Automaton` which represents a
nondeterministic finite automaton. The `NFA` class can be found under
`automata/nfa.py`.

#### NFA properties

Every NFA contains the same five DFA properties: `state`, `symbols`,
`transitions`, `initial_state`, and `final_states`. However, the structure of
the  `transitions` object has been modified slightly to accommodate the fact
that a single state can have more than one transition for the same symbol.
Therefore, instead of mapping a symbol to *one* end state in each sub-dict, each
symbol is mapped to a *set* of end states.

#### Validating input

The `validate_input()` method checks whether or not the given string is accepted
by the NFA. If the string is accepted, the method returns a `set` of states the
automaton stopped on (which presumably contains at least one valid final state).
If the string is rejected by the NFA, the method will raise the appropriate
exception (see **Exception classes**).

#### Converting an NFA to a DFA

To create a DFA that is equivalent to an existing NFA, simply pass the `NFA`
instance to the `DFA` constructor.

#### Complete example

```python
from automata.dfa import DFA
from automata.nfa import NFA
# NFA which matches strings beginning with 'a', ending with 'a', and containing
# no consecutive 'b's
nfa = NFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    symbols={'a', 'b'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'a': {'q1'}},
        # Use '' as the key name for empty string (lambda) transitions
        'q1': {'a': {'q1'}, '': {'q2'}},
        'q2': {'b': {'q0'}}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
dfa = DFA(nfa) # returns an equivalent DFA
nfa.validate_input('aba') # returns {'q1', 'q2'}
nfa.validate_input('abba') # raises FinalStateError
```

### Exception classes

The library also includes a number of exception classes to ensure that errors
never pass silently (unless explicitly silenced). See `automata/automaton.py`
for these class definitions.

To reference these exceptions (so as to catch them in a `try..except` block or
whatnot), simply import `automata.automaton` however you'd like:

```python
import automata.automaton as automaton
```

#### class AutomatonError

A base class from which all other automaton exceptions inherit.

#### class InvalidStateError

Raised if a state is not a valid state for this automaton.

#### class InvalidSymbolError

Raised if a symbol is not a valid symbol for this automaton.

#### class MissingStateError

Raised if a state is missing from the transition map for this automaton.

#### class MissingSymbolError

Raised if a symbol is missing from the transition map for this automaton.

#### class FinalStateError

Raised if the automaton stopped at a non-final state after validating input.

Commit message:

Document copying a DFA or NFA

README.md, after:

# Automata

*Copyright 2016 Caleb Evans*  
*Released under the MIT license*

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/caleb531/automata.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/caleb531/automata)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/caleb531/automata/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/caleb531/automata?branch=master)

Automata is a Python 3 library which implements the structures and algorithms I
am learning in my Automata Theory class. The project is still under development,
so the API is not yet stable, nor is the code complete in terms of
functionality.

Automata requires Python 3.3 or newer.

## API

### class Automaton

The `Automaton` class is an abstract base class from which all finite automata
inherit. As such, it cannot be instantiated on its own; you must use the `DFA`
and `NFA` classes instead (or you may create your own subclass if you're feeling
adventurous). The `Automaton` class can be found under `automata/automaton.py`.

### class DFA

The `DFA` class is a subclass of class `Automaton` which represents a
deterministic finite automaton. The `DFA` class can be found under
`automata/dfa.py`.

#### DFA properties

Every DFA instance has the following properties:

1. `states`: a `set` of the DFA's valid states, each of which must be
represented as a string

2. `symbols`: a `set` of the DFA's valid symbols, each of which must also be
represented as a string

3. `transitions`: a `dict` consisting of the transitions for each state. Each
key is a state name and each value is a `dict` which maps a symbol (the key) to
a state (the value).

4. `initial_state`: the name of the initial state for this DFA

5. `final_states`: a `set` of final states for this DFA

All of these properties must be supplied when the DFA is
instantiated (see the examples below).

#### Validating input

The `validate_input()` method checks whether or not the given string is accepted
by the DFA. If the string is accepted, the method returns the state the
automaton stopped on (which presumably is a valid final state). If the string is
rejected by the DFA, the method will raise the appropriate exception (see
**Exception classes**).

#### Copying an DFA

To create an exact copy of an DFA, simply pass an `DFA` instance into the `DFA`
constructor.

#### Complete example

```python
from automata.dfa import DFA
# DFA which matches all binary strings ending in an odd number of '1's
dfa = DFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    symbols={'0', '1'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q1'},
        'q1': {'0': 'q0', '1': 'q2'},
        'q2': {'0': 'q2', '1': 'q1'}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
dfa_copy = DFA(dfa) # returns an exact copy of dfa
dfa.validate_input('01') # returns 'q1'
dfa.validate_input('011') # raises FinalStateError
```

### class NFA

The `NFA` class is a subclass of class `Automaton` which represents a
nondeterministic finite automaton. The `NFA` class can be found under
`automata/nfa.py`.

#### NFA properties

Every NFA contains the same five DFA properties: `state`, `symbols`,
`transitions`, `initial_state`, and `final_states`. However, the structure of
the  `transitions` object has been modified slightly to accommodate the fact
that a single state can have more than one transition for the same symbol.
Therefore, instead of mapping a symbol to *one* end state in each sub-dict, each
symbol is mapped to a *set* of end states.

#### Validating input

The `validate_input()` method checks whether or not the given string is accepted
by the NFA. If the string is accepted, the method returns a `set` of states the
automaton stopped on (which presumably contains at least one valid final state).
If the string is rejected by the NFA, the method will raise the appropriate
exception (see **Exception classes**).

#### Converting an NFA to a DFA

To create a DFA that is equivalent to an existing NFA, simply pass the `NFA`
instance to the `DFA` constructor.

#### Copying an NFA

To create an exact copy of an NFA, simply pass an `NFA` instance into the `NFA`
constructor.

#### Complete example

```python
from automata.dfa import DFA
from automata.nfa import NFA
# NFA which matches strings beginning with 'a', ending with 'a', and containing
# no consecutive 'b's
nfa = NFA(
    states={'q0', 'q1', 'q2'},
    symbols={'a', 'b'},
    transitions={
        'q0': {'a': {'q1'}},
        # Use '' as the key name for empty string (lambda) transitions
        'q1': {'a': {'q1'}, '': {'q2'}},
        'q2': {'b': {'q0'}}
    },
    initial_state='q0',
    final_states={'q1'}
)
nfa_copy = NFA(nfa) # returns an exact copy of nfa
dfa = DFA(nfa) # returns an equivalent DFA
nfa.validate_input('aba') # returns {'q1', 'q2'}
nfa.validate_input('abba') # raises FinalStateError
```

### Exception classes

The library also includes a number of exception classes to ensure that errors
never pass silently (unless explicitly silenced). See `automata/automaton.py`
for these class definitions.

To reference these exceptions (so as to catch them in a `try..except` block or
whatnot), simply import `automata.automaton` however you'd like:

```python
import automata.automaton as automaton
```

#### class AutomatonError

A base class from which all other automaton exceptions inherit.

#### class InvalidStateError

Raised if a state is not a valid state for this automaton.

#### class InvalidSymbolError

Raised if a symbol is not a valid symbol for this automaton.

#### class MissingStateError

Raised if a state is missing from the transition map for this automaton.

#### class MissingSymbolError

Raised if a symbol is missing from the transition map for this automaton.

#### class FinalStateError

Raised if the automaton stopped at a non-final state after validating input.
