docs/index.md, before:

---
author: "Lewi Lie Uberg"
---

# Automata <!-- omit in toc -->

_Copyright 2016-2022 Caleb Evans_
_Released under the MIT license_

[![tests](https://github.com/caleb531/automata/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/caleb531/automata/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/caleb531/automata/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/r/caleb531/automata?branch=main)

Automata is a Python 3 library which implements the structures and algorithms
for finite automata, pushdown automata, and Turing machines. The library
requires Python 3.7 or newer.

Huge thanks to [@YtvwlD][YtvwlD], [@dengl11][dengl11], [@Tagl][Tagl],
[@lewiuberg][lewiuberg], [@CamiloMartinezM][CamiloMartinezM],
[@abhinavsinha‑adrino][abhinavsinha-adrino], and [@eliotwrobson][eliotwrobson]
for their invaluable code contributions to this project! 🎉

[YtvwlD]: https://github.com/YtvwlD
[dengl11]: https://github.com/dengl11
[Tagl]: https://github.com/Tagl
[lewiuberg]: https://github.com/lewiuberg
[CamiloMartinezM]: https://github.com/CamiloMartinezM
[abhinavsinha-adrino]: https://github.com/abhinavsinha-adrino
[eliotwrobson]: https://github.com/eliotwrobson

## Migrating to v7

If you wish to migrate to Automata v7 from an older version, please follow the
[migration guide][migration].

<!-- the below link must be an absolute URL to be functional in the PyPI README -->

[migration]: https://github.com/caleb531/automata/blob/main/MIGRATION.md

## Installing

You can install the latest version of Automata via pip:

```sh
pip install automata-lib
```

## API

Please refer to [the official API Documentation][docs] in the `docs/` directory
of the GitHub repository.

<!-- the below link must be an absolute URL to be functional in the PyPI README -->

[docs]: https://github.com/caleb531/automata/blob/main/docs/README.md

Commit message:

Moved migration guide to docs page

docs/index.md, after:

---
author: "Lewi Lie Uberg"
---

# Automata <!-- omit in toc -->

_Copyright 2016-2022 Caleb Evans_
_Released under the MIT license_

[![tests](https://github.com/caleb531/automata/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/caleb531/automata/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/caleb531/automata/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/r/caleb531/automata?branch=main)
[![status](https://joss.theoj.org/papers/fe4d8521383598038e38bc0c948718af/status.svg)](https://joss.theoj.org/papers/fe4d8521383598038e38bc0c948718af)


Automata is a Python 3 library implementing structures and algorithms for manipulating finite automata,
pushdown automata, and Turing machines. The algorithms have been optimized and are capable of
processing large inputs. Visualization logic has also been implemented. This package is suitable for
both researchers wishing to manipulate automata and for instructors teaching courses on theoretical
computer science.

The library requires Python 3.8 or newer.

## Installing

You can install the latest version of Automata via pip:

```sh
pip install automata-lib
```

To install the optional visual dependencies, use the `visual` extra:

```sh
pip install 'automata-lib[visual]'
```
